We'll start talking about how you can use Spark UI for this course.
Right now in the workspace,
the port is configured to 3000 but in your application later,
you can freely configured this.
So let's take a look at the code.
The way you can configure this is that,
you pass in a config parameter Spark that UI that port with 3000.
I'm going to run all this code on all cells.
If you run all of this,
you can click on this preview button and that will direct you to Spark UI.
Right now the job is getting executed and probably doesn't
have any action word to trigger the DAG.
Now, when I refresh this,
you can see all the different jobs that I run.
So first, let's go back to the code.
I have some Read CSV file.
There are two of them reading two different CSV files,
and there's a show string.
There's another show to look at the DataFrame.
There's another filter and then show,
and then print schema.
This is a function to operate on a row and we'll take a look at it later.
There is with column, another show,
another width column, and then show,
there are a lot of shows, and there's join and there's collect.
So when we go back to here,
we see a lot of the CSV in the shows string which
we actually saw that in the code and there's collect.
So this us back in the main page,
and there's a lot of information on this page.
Here you can see the Spark version, we're running 2.3.3,
and then this is the name of the application which actually we
configured at the beginning up here as a join query plan,
and this is a stages,
specifically through stages which we'll look take a look at later.
There's a storage tab.
It doesn't show anything right now because we don't have
Hadoop file system configured in this workspace,
but you will see once you have that.
Environment shows environment variables.
So we can see we're running Java 1.8 version,
Scala 2.11, and there is an app ID during query name.
Port the master is local.
We're running a standalone.
There is a port number that we configured.
There's also a bunch of other useful informations like,
these are Java configurations that is important to
know once you're actually running it in Linux not your Mac OS.
Also this is the actual command that SparkSubmit.
So when you do SparkSubmit,
it will run with the configuration of Master of local two,
and the configuration of Spark UI port 3000 and app name.
Then we're running in Spark shell.
This is all the jar file,
is probably irrelevant to whoever is running this in Python,
is hard to tell because these are all Java jar file.
So you can pass that.
Usually, there are some times it tells you
if you configure it which Python version you're running.
I don't see it now,
but that is also important to know because
sometimes although your code shouldn't be really running Python 2 anymore,
sometimes it is important to know what it is you're executing on.
This is the executors tab.
This basically has information of your machine.
It shows we have one driver and it's active, and so on.
While it's getting executed.
The job's actually finished right now but when the job is actually being executed,
you'll see the workers as well and see their stages.
There's SQL which is because we ran it on the DataFrame,
if we go back to the code, we initialize SparkSession.
So these Spark variable is actually
a SparkSession which means we ran this on a DataFrame.
So the SQL tab is also showing.
So when you click on this,
this shows the information about what
we ran on each DataFrame and this is where you can see logical plans.
We'll also take a look at physical plans and logical plans later in the lesson.